Docs 11259 external group mapping (#149)
mulesoft/docs-access-management: modules/ROOT/pages/map-users-roles-teams.adoc

:page-aliases: map-users-roles-ldap-task.adoc

You can map users in a federated organization's group to a team or role. Your Anypoint Platform organization must use an external identity provider, such as PingFederate.

After you have mapped them, users in an organization can log in to Anypoint Platform using the same organizational credentials and access permissions that an organization maintains using SAML, OpenID Connect (OIDC), or LDAP. +

> This helps to ensure secure credentials and to maintain organizational teams or roles for accessing privileged information.

Reviewer: `organizational teams` sounds strange. `organizational structure`?

Author: ```suggestion
This helps to ensure secure credentials and to maintain organizational structure for accessing privileged information.
```

> In the above example of a SAML assertion, the *Group Attribute* is `Groups`.

Author: ```suggestion
In the above example of a SAML assertion, the *Group Attribute* is `Groups`.

Verify that the value in the *Group Attribute* field matches the name of the SAML attribute that contains the group names.
```

== Configure Multiple Group Mappings for Single Sign-On Using LDAP

You can obtain the information you need to map your LDAP group to a team or role using a SAML assertion. Note that user management through LDAP is available only for Anypoint Platform Private Cloud Edition.

Example string from your SAML assertion AttributeValue to the External Group Name:

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<saml:AttributeValue xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
  xsi:type="xs:string">cn=jira-users,ou=groups,dc=muleforge,dc=org</saml:AttributeValue>
----

Mapping:

image::external-identity-cfb1e.png[]

== Map SSO Users to Teams

> You can map SSO users to teams by including the group names or SAML assertions.

Reviewer 2: I think the mention of SAML here adds more confusion than assistance

Reviewer 2: the group names can come from any of the IdP types

Author: ```suggestion
You can map SSO users to teams by including their group names.
```

A new team is created.
+
. In the *Teams* section, click the name of the new team.
. Click the *Settings* tab.
. In the *Group Name* field, enter the group name that you want to map: +

* SAML: The group attribute that comes from your array of SAML groups
* OIDC: The groups claims values that come from the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint responses
* LDAP: The string from your SAML assertion AttributeValue
+
. Select a membership type for the group name. +
If you select *Maintainer*, users who have that group name become team maintainers for this team. If you select *Member*, users who have this group name become team members.
+
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Save Changes*. +
The SSO users associated with the group you designated are assigned to the team.

== Map SSO Users to Roles

You can create a role to map to groups of SSO users in your organization.

include::partial$include-nav-steps-org-admin.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-roles.adoc[]

. Click *Add Role*.
. Specify a role name and description.
. Click *Add Role*.
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role.
. Click *Set external group mapping*.
. Under *External group names*, enter one of the following: +

> * SAML: The group attribute that comes from your array of SAML groups +
> Verify that the value in the *Group Attribute* field matches the name of the SAML attribute that contains the group names.
> +

Author: ```suggestion
* SAML: The group attribute that comes from your array of SAML groups 
```

> * OIDC: The groups claims values that come from the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint responses +
> If your IdP requires an additional OIDC scope to authorize access to groups claims, enter it in the *Group Scope* field, and verify that the https://jsonata.org[JSONata] query in *Group Attribute JSONata Expression* yields an array of group names from either the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint response.

Author: ```suggestion
* OIDC: The groups claims values that come from the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint responses
```

+
* LDAP: The string from your SAML assertion AttributeValue

. Click *Update*. +

> The SSO users associated with the groups you designated are assigned the role.

Reviewer 2: I think what you have here should be the same as what you have above for [teams](https://github.com/mulesoft/docs-access-management/pull/149/files#diff-57737b19e2279614234821d3dc1eab938b75d60075f384d6e0185132bb52046dR141-R143)

line 168 should be moved back to the SAML section
and line 171 can be removed here since it's already in the OIDC section

if you want, you could link to the relevant sections from here, but otherwise I wouldn't mention it  here

* SAML: The group attribute that comes from your array of SAML groups
* OIDC: The groups claims values that come from the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint responses
* LDAP: The string from your SAML assertion AttributeValue
+
. Select a membership type for the group name. +
If you select *Maintainer*, users who have that group name become team maintainers for this team. If you select *Member*, users who have this group name become team members.
+
. Click *Add*.
. Click *Save Changes*. +
The SSO users associated with the group you designated are assigned to the team.

== Map SSO Users to Roles

You can create a role to map to groups of SSO users in your organization.

include::partial$include-nav-steps-org-admin.adoc[]

include::partial$include-nav-roles.adoc[]

. Click *Add Role*.
. Specify a role name and description.
. Click *Add Role*.
. In the *Roles* section, click the name of the new role.
. Click *Set external group mapping*.
. Under *External group names*, enter one of the following: +

* SAML: The group attribute that comes from your array of SAML groups 
* OIDC: The groups claims values that come from the `UserInfo` or `Token` endpoint responses

> +

Author: ```suggestion
```
